Update Attachments markdown and snippets (#545)
getditto/docs: docs/common/datamodel/attachment.mdx

sidebar_position: 4
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';  
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';  
import SnippetGroup from '@site/src/components/SnippetGroup';  

If you want to sync a large amount of binary data, such as a file, that you want to sync between 

> devices, then you should use the attachments feature. Any piece of data larger than 250kb should be shared using this `Attachment` type.

Reviewer: Perhaps we want to link here from Schemas where we note "Documents should not be larger than 250Kb. Any document that is larger than 5MB will not synchronize to other peers. Ditto over Bluetooth LE typically synchronizes documents at a maximum speed of 20 kB/second. This means that a single document that is 250kb large could take 10 seconds (in the best case scenario) to synchronize for the first time between devices." thoughts @contenuto ?

Here, we call `newAttachment()` on our collection which returns a `DittoAttachment` object. We 
`set()` the attachment object on the document. You can think of this step as creating a pointer from 
the ditto `User` document to the external attachment file. 
 
<SnippetGroup name='attachment-add-attachment-func'/>  

Note that on the `User` model, the `avatarToken` variable is of type `DittoAttachmentToken`, yet we 
call the `set()` function with a `DittoAttachment` object. This can be confusing. The `set()` 
function, called with the attachment on a `DittoMutableDocumentPath` instance, causes the data bytes
of the attachment at the given file location to be stored in the Ditto database, along with the 
metatdata; the document property is initialized with a `DittoAttachmentToken` with which we will 
later fetch the attachment data asnynchronously from the p2p mesh, or from local storage if it has 
already been fetched.
  
  
### Synchronizing your attachment

Peers can now find the document, fetch the attachment, and use the image.  Optionally, the 
`progress` event value may be used to update a progress view. In this example, the 

> `DittoCollection.fetchAttachment(token:deliverOn:onFetchEvent:)` has been wrapped in an 

Reviewer: Not all languages will have this, so we should wrap this section so it only shows up in the [Swift documentation using this method.](https://github.com/getditto/docs/blob/main/docs/common/security/authentication.mdx?plain=1#L57-L115)

I can take a look at this

Author: Ah, ok, sorry, I thought the whole thing is Swift-specific, but on reflection, that wouldn't make much sense...

Reviewer: I'm happy that you started with swift first. All of our docs are cross language right now but eventually we will probably want separate text for each language because it will be a better experience

Reviewer: We could also make reference to the following parts of the chat app., eg Creating an attachment: https://github.com/getditto/demoapp-chat/blob/main/iOS/DittoChat/Data/DittoService.swift#L299-L321

Author: > Not all languages will have this, so we should wrap this section so it only shows up in the [Swift documentation using this method.](https://github.com/getditto/docs/blob/main/docs/common/security/authentication.mdx?plain=1#L57-L115)
> 
> I can take a look at this

I had a go at it but couldn't figure out how to make that happen

Reviewer: Taking a look again!

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import SnippetGroup from '@site/src/components/SnippetGroup';

If you want to sync a large amount of binary data, such as a file, that you want to sync between 
devices, then you should use the attachments feature. Any piece of data larger than 250kb should be 
shared using this `Attachment` type.

Attachments do not get synced between devices by default, even if they are part of a document that 
is being synced between devices. This is because they could be very large files that a given device 
doesn't need. Instead, an attachment must be explicitly fetched using an attachment token that will 
be present in the document the attachment is linked to.  

> 

Reviewer 2: Should this be "...peer-to-peer sync and mesh performance..."?

> 

Reviewer: The small peer on swift is actually on disk not in memory -- only the JavaScript SDK is in memory (I can see that is likely confusing!)

> 

Reviewer 2: Ah, okay. I think it's accurate now. Well, I'm not sure about the "...do not unnecessarily consume the local disk space attached to the Small Peer or, if syncing by way of the mesh, the data transmission rate." I assume so.

> 

Reviewer: THat seems right!

### Creating your `DittoAttachmentToken`
  
Somewhere in your app you would have a function that adds an image as an attachment to the `User` 
document, perhaps passing the `User` instance and a `URL.path` to the image location. 

Here, we call `newAttachment()` on our collection which returns a `DittoAttachment` object. We 
`set()` the attachment object on the document. You can think of this step as creating a pointer from 
the ditto `User` document to the external attachment file. 
 
<SnippetGroup name='attachment-add-attachment-func'/>  

Note that on the `User` model, the `avatarToken` variable is of type `DittoAttachmentToken`, yet we 
call the `set()` function with a `DittoAttachment` object. This can be confusing. The `set()` 
function, called with the attachment on a `DittoMutableDocumentPath` instance, causes the data bytes
of the attachment at the given file location to be stored in the Ditto database, along with the 
metatdata; the document property is initialized with a `DittoAttachmentToken` with which we will 
later fetch the attachment data asnynchronously from the p2p mesh, or from local storage if it has 
already been fetched.
  

>   

Reviewer 2: The "if already fetched" bit is confusing me. Shouldn't this be "if already fetched and initialized, the Small Peer in-memory database..." or something?

>   

Reviewer: More accurately, the DittoATtachmentToken would be referenced later. The token is a unique identifier that points to that data somewhere on the mesh

### Synchronizing your attachment

Peers can now find the document, fetch the attachment, and use the image.  Optionally, the 
`progress` event value may be used to update a progress view. In this example, the 
`DittoCollection.fetchAttachment(token:deliverOn:onFetchEvent:)` has been wrapped in an 
`ImageAttachmentFetcher` struct for convenience.  

<SnippetGroup name='attachment-fetcher-struct'/>

It is called with a progress handling closure for updating a progress view, and a completion 
handler for handling the fetched image.  

> 
> Note that a strong reference to the attachment fetcher will need to be maintained for the full 
> duration of the asynchronous fetch operation, shown here with a property. If the fetcher goes out 
> of scope during the fetch operation the fetch will be silently aborted.  
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the attachment fetcher must remain a globally available instance for the entire duration of the asynchronous fetch operation, we maintain a strong reference to the attachment fetcher as indicated with a property. 

If, at anytime, the fetcher operation goes out of scope, fetch will be silently aborted.  

```

Reviewer 2: What happens when fetch ops silently aborts? How do you know? Do you get the print error "Error creating TMP storage directory" or something?

Reviewer: Unfortunately we don't have errors :(
